>> Participant: Is just the recommended
testing tool with most JavaScript and
TypeScript projects?
>> Francesca Sadikin: I think so.
>> Participant: When you started
working on the main code file,
you wrote if else statement placing the
previous implementation logic in that else
block with the new
requirements in an if block.
So I'm wondering if it's
good practice to do that,
if the reason wasn't to ensure
the previous code still runs.
My concern is if I take over
the project with new requirements,
it will it be good to follow
the same approach putting all of
the previous code in else block,
and rewind in the if block.
>> Francesca Sadikin: I guess that was the
way to create a seam in this project and
in this particular code.
I think it depends on what existing
code is going to look like for you.
But the goal is to still
somehow be able to write
code to inject new bits safely and
somehow let the existing
system be the fallback.
So if that looks like an if
else block in your code or
something else, however,
way it can be achieved.
>> Participant: In this code base, there's
a lot of if blocks, is there a way to
refactor it, or is it just kind of to
show the amount of cases with testing?
Or what's the approach to
making this code base better.
>> Francesca Sadikin: So
it's interesting you're asking that.
I am just writing the simplest
amount of code and
then just focusing on different
aspects in different refactors.
Someone could continue going with this and
continue refactoring it even more.
That just wasn't the priority
that I had here.
So yeah, if someone wanted something
different, they're free to do it.
The important parts that I'm
trying to show here is that with
the test suite giving you
immediate signals whether they'll
come the code you're adding is working or
not.
We can do many rounds of refactoring
doing a little like goal each time.
This is in contrast to maybe like
taking all of these requirements and
coming up with some sort of new perfect.
Code to completely solve
all the requirements and
be the ideal code that you're looking for.
I found that when you do it that way,
it leads to somewhat more
complicated code, and
it probably takes you a lot more time.
And doing it in small little refactorings
like this means that at any moment,
if you had a huge deadline,
you could ship it cuz it's working, right?
And then you can focus on doing more
iterations to improve it continuously
afterwards.
So you don't have as much of a time
constraint to make it the most
perfect thing at the risk
of it like that working.
>> Participant 2: I guess
do you have any tips for
when you're at an organization and
you get assigned a ticket for
a sprint and
you hop in to add this functionality or
debug this issue and
you see an opportunity to refactor.
Do you have any tips for
deciding when that's appropriate?
Or when you might just have enough
time to add the functionality and
maybe continue with a pattern that you
know is wrong versus deciding that
this would be a good time to actually
spend more time with factors.
>> Francesca Sadikin: So definitely will
depend on how much time constraints you're
actually working in.
But if you had a little bit of time
trying to somehow create a new
pattern in this code,
you don't have to fix everything.
But just creating a little
bit of the new code and
then encouraging all the other engineers
to hey, when you add to this file,
please work in this pattern now and
let's stop adding to the debt.
That's probably most likely what you're
going to do, because most engineers
don't have the amount of dedicated
time to completely rewrite it, yeah.
>> Participant 2: So,
in that case, do you have tips for
how you kinda leave that note there for
the next engineer that comes along?
If you're leaving it in
an inconsistent state.
>> Francesca Sadikin: Yeah, it's
interesting cuz in our current code base
we do this, we have a lot of
different states of code as well, and
what we actually use is lint warnings.
So we have our team writing custom
ESlint warnings that says everything in
this folder, don't add to this,
we do not want to keep using this pattern.
So when someone opens that file,
it'll actually show in a red underline
at the top that says, that note, right?
So, we find that those
types of lint warnings
are actually more
effective than just putting
comments because it's not
as easily visible, yeah.
Yeah, okay, so some takeaways, right?
Hopefully as you saw in this exercise
when working with an existing code,
with existing code base,
if there is not a test suite.
I really like adding a test
suite one because It helps you
understand the system right?
Two, it's that immediate signal that
tells you whether what you're doing is
correct or failing a bunch of
things when you're refactoring it.
And three, it acts as documentation for
future developers.
So I mentioned before that I don't
recommend adding comments to code
because it gets stale.
Tests cannot get stale because they're
usually run with every PR and every merge.
And so it actually has a higher chance
of being current with the code.
And it's always describing what it does,
and
other engineers can continuously add more
tasks when they uncover bugs and stuff.
So it's just like a live
document of what this code is.
I also covered just this
concept of how do we try out
figure out a way to add
little bits of new code?
Safely without breaking a bunch of things,
using seams and
to refactor code in iterations.
So that's a big one,
it's like don't try and
go after the most perfect code to
handle all the cases all at once.
That's just gonna take more time,
it's gonna get really messy and
working in little,little loops,
still make sure that everything is
working if you had to just ship it.